[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
We've been talking
about the incredible arc
of information regarding
ancient civilizations.
And although this
may seem interesting,
there is a linkage
point, I believe,
between ancient
civilizations and what's
going on right now in today's
world with the so-called
"Illuminati."
Now, some people don't
like the use of that word.
But the simple fact is that
we can create a through
line of data showing that
there were great secrets kept
in the mystery school teachings
that then were held very highly
secretive.
And only through initiation
were you able to gain access
to these secrets.
Now, these secrets, of course,
include the acquisition
of power.
And I'm not just talking
about spiritual power.
I'm talking about
great worldly power.
So what if a group
of people believed
that acquiring this
power showed that they
were essentially gods on Earth?
Well, the guy I'm going
to start interviewing
in this and a few other
episodes is none other
than G. Edward Griffin.
He doesn't get into all that
ancient civilization stuff.
But I want to bring you
right up-to-date by showing
you what's going on
in the here and now.
That's where G.
Edward Griffin shines.
And specifically, his book,
The Creature from Jekyll Island
is considered the defining
standard of scholarship
on the subject of
the Federal Reserve.
In fact, the Federal
Reserve was audited,
and it was
Representative Ron Paul
who had a lot to do with
that going through Congress.
And the result of that
audit revealed that
around the time of the 2008
financial collapse and bailout,
that the actual figure
of how much money was
paid by the Federal Reserve
to its own member banks
was $26 trillion.
That's a number that's
staggering beyond belief,
because the entire
Gross Domestic Product
of the entire world is only
a little over $60 trillion.
So it's almost half
of all the value
of real money in the world
that was paid to these "too big
to fail" banks.
Now, when we get into this
first round of interviews
with G. Edward Griffin,
we're not actually
talking about the
Federal Reserve as much.
We're talking about his first
book called The Fearful Master.
It was an investigation
of the United Nations
and incredibly treasonous things
that, as other insiders told
me, ultimately led
our own US military
to realize that the United
Nations was selling them out,
and we were being betrayed.
And we were losing
soldiers in the Korean War,
because the United Nations was
revealing our true positions.
So what we're also going
to get into in this episode
is the cancer cure.
Now, what do you mean
a cure for cancer?
What if there's been cures
for cancer all along?
Well, that's one of the
things that G. Edward Griffin
wrote about.
And we get into
this whole concept
of the pharmaceutical
cartel and the idea
that there is an incredible
amount of money to be
made from prescription drugs.
So these are the
precursor arguments
that we need to build our way
up to discussing the Federal
Reserve that we're going to
get into in later episodes.
So I want you to
check this out now,
because G. Edward
Griffin is the name
that I used to see
on the internet
when I got into all
this in the 1990s.
Everybody quoted Creature
from Jekyll Island.
His book is loaded
with documentation,
loaded with references.
I consider him to be the gold
standard by which all Federal
Reserve scholars are judged.
So let's check it out.
Your first book from
1964, The Fearful Master,
specifically went in and
exposed very dark stuff going on
with the United Nations.
Most people say, well,
the United Nations
is a good organization.
It's promoting world peace.
Your viewpoint was very
different than that.
So somewhere along the way,
the romantic fascination
with the mainstream view and the
way that most people see things
must have broken for you.
There must have been
some decisive point when
you realize that things
aren't working out
the way they should.
So how do we start out in
discussing the United Nations,
the first book that you wrote,
and what led you to want
to investigate this subject?
How did you find out about this?
>>G. EDWARD GRIFFIN: I
began to become aware
of other things that were
contrary to my prior education.
Let's call it that.
I was going to call
it indoctrination,
and maybe that is a better word,
but nevertheless, my experience
and my exposure.
And I ran into the topic
of the United Nations.
And I heard this
fellow, Robert Welch,
and he was the founder of
the John Birch Society.
And I saw a film of
him, a 16 millimeter
film in which he was ranting
on about, this is no good.
And that's terrible, and
we've got a problem here.
And none of these things
rang a bell with me.
I thought this guy
is off his rocker.
And when it came to
the United Nations
and said negative
things about that,
I thought, well,
this is a bad man.
He doesn't know what
he's talking about.
Because I went to
school, and I learned
that the United Nations was
our last best hope for peace,
right?
So how could you
dare criticize this?
I mean, they feed
little children,
and they prevent yaws
and other dread diseases.
And they're
humanitarians, right?
>>NARRATOR: The
airport in Katanga
remains under heavy
UN guard as war rages
in and around Elizabethville.
The newest conflict
in the Congo began
after the Security Council
adopted a resolution calling
for the use of
force, if necessary,
to oust mercenaries from
the secessionist province.
It is in this war-torn area
that the United Nations
faces a grave challenge
to its effectiveness.
The United States is giving
both moral and material backing
to the effort to ensure the
Congo a peaceful future.
>>GRIFFIN: So anyway,
but he got to me.
And I remember-- I think it
was the next day-- coming back
to the insurance office.
I always pass by the main
library for Los Angeles.
I never went in there before.
But this day, I said,
I'm going to go in there
and see what I
can find on the UN
and check this guy out
and see if he's right.
So, to make a long story
short, I did go in.
I went to the international
affairs part of the library,
and I found five or
six books on the UN.
And blow me down,
they all confirmed
what this man, Welch, had said.
But not directly, because
they were all written
from a favorable point of view.
They were written by people who
were either employed by the UN
or from the State
Department, which
created the UN, or some
supporter of the UN.
But once you had the
information that I
heard from this film
as a possible template
to hold up to evaluate what was
being written in these books,
I could see how that's
just another way
of saying the same thing.
And it was really confirmed.
Well, that really got to me.
And I said, I'm really
kind of ticked off
about this, because why didn't
people tell me about this?
So that's when I discovered
that I have kind of a crusader
spirit, instinct, I guess.
I always want to
defend the underdog.
And I think a lot of
people are like that.
And I think young people,
especially, are like that.
But as they get older,
they kind of get over it.
Well, that's not the
way the real world runs.
And so, anyway, I never
got over it, I guess.
Because that's when
it first hit me that
I really had to do something
about this terrible myth
about the United Nations.
I had to let people know
what I had just learned.
>>DAVID: OK, so that's the
smoke, but where is the fire?
What I really want
to know here is
what was the knife in your
heart, that decisive moment
that just made you see the
United Nations for what
you came to see it as being?
What was that moment for you?
>>GRIFFIN: We were told by
newspaper accounts and news
accounts on television
and radio that the UN was
in there to restore peace,
and to put down rebellion,
and to put down chaos, and
to restore law and order,
to save all these poor people
who were losing their property,
losing their lives, and having
to flee in terror to get out
of the Congo.
And when I actually got to
the firsthand accounts of what
was happening, written
by people who were there,
and some of them, interestingly
enough, written by United
Nations people who
were running the show,
boasting about
what they're doing,
I realized that
they were there not
to restore peace and tranquility
to the overall Congo.
Because there was one
province in the Congo
called Katanga which already
had peace and tranquility.
They're the ones that said
no, we're seceding from chaos.
That was the phrase
that Moise Tshombe used.
He said, "we are
seceding from chaos."
>>NARRATOR: Tshombe has declared
that to keep Katanga free,
his people have poisoned arrows
and spears ready to make up
for shortage of arms.
>>GRIFFIN: And so he declared
independence of his province
from the rest of the Congo.
The Congo was seething in
violence and destruction.
But Katanga was a little island
of tranquility and prosperity.
So where did the UN go?
To Katanga.
They attacked Katanga
militarily to bring it back
under the control of
the larger Congo, which
was dominated by Communists.
And when I realized
the reality of what
was happening and compared
that to the myth that
was perpetuated through
our media, I was outraged.
And that was the knife that
you refer to in my heart.
And so, from that point
forward, I was through.
I was sunk.
I had to do
something about this.
And one discovery led to
another and then to another.
It's like once you realize
that maybe not everything is
hunky-dory and the way you've
been taught to believe.
Once you have the ability
to question these things,
it's amazing how
many other things
you see as being in violation
of truth and justice.
So that was how it
all began, and it's
been getting worse ever since.
>>DAVID: Let's talk a
little about Nazi Germany
and, specifically, the largest
industrial conglomerate
that you say in your
book has ever existed
on Earth, known as IG Farben.
You make some very surprising
connections between IG Farben
and what now is the modern-day
pharmaceutical industry.
So I'm curious about how
this all fits together.
Could you please
tell us a little bit
about Nazi Germany, IG Farben,
the industrial conglomerate,
and pharmaceuticals?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, isn't
that an interesting topic?
And I have to give you a
little back story on that too.
I hope you have enough
chip in the camera
to record all of this.
Maybe it'll wind up on the
cutting room floor, I hope.
But anyway, back stories
to me are very important,
because when I
started to do research
on cancer therapy--
which is another one
of those outrageous fields where
the truth is really concealed
from the public, and I
was really in crusader
mode on that-- I was
getting a lot of information
from scientific people, from
doctors, and researchers,
and theorists, academics
about the nature of cancer,
the biological forces and
the biochemical pathways,
and so forth.
And I was totally focused on
the science of cancer therapy.
And one of the leaders in that
field of alternative therapies
using things like Laetrile
and other non-toxic natural
remedies, who was
gaining a lot of support
and making great
headway in curing cancer
at a much higher rate than
orthodox medicine, one
of those men was
a friend of mine
by the name of John Richardson,
who was an MD in the San
Francisco area.
And he and I would confer a lot.
And he was teaching me a
lot about what I needed
to know from a technical side.
But his office manager, Ralph
Bowman, was a funny little guy.
I loved Ralph.
He always seemed like
his mind was elsewhere
into bigger things.
And sometimes you
felt like, hey Ralph,
come on back to
the conversation.
Well, one of these bigger
things that Ralph was into
and he felt that I needed
to know about was IG Farben.
He says, Ed, if you're
going to do this,
you need to know about this
German chemical cartel.
And I remember thinking
to myself, Ralph, go away.
No, I'm talking about cancer.
I don't want to know about
Germany and the Nazis.
I'll just focus on cancer.
OK?
No, you're making a big mistake.
So he kept loading me
up with books and books.
And I really didn't
want to read them,
because I thought it
was a waste of time.
But once I started,
I was hooked.
I realized, oh, my
gosh, Ralph is right.
This all goes back-- this
is bigger than the science.
And it was then in
that stage of research
that I realized that
the story about cancer
is divided into two parts.
There's the science
of cancer therapy
and the politics of cancer
therapy or the economics.
You might throw that in there.
And of the two, the
science is really easy.
It's very simple.
It's provable.
It's a slam dunk thing.
But the reason nobody
knows about that
is because of the other
side of the picture.
It's the politics, the
economics, the cash flow,
the profit motive, the
corporatism that's involved.
Prior to World
War II in Germany,
there was a cartel, which means
a grouping, an association
of competing companies.
At least on the surface,
they're competing.
But they come together to
minimize their competition,
to reduce their competition.
And eventually, if they can
come to enough agreements,
they eliminate the competition.
Even though they're
independent corporations,
they work in perfect lockstep.
And the object, of course,
is to avoid competition
so they won't have to reduce
prices, or compete for better
products, or whatever.
They just agree, OK, guys, this
is what we're all going to do.
And there will be no
competition between us,
so our profit margins can
be a little higher that way.
And part of that
story is that we
have to make sure that nobody
else gets into the field.
So that's what cartels
always do is set about
to create regulations
which keep newcomers out.
I discovered that for the first
time in researching IG Farben,
because in Germany, that was
really the granddaddy of all
of the cartels.
All of the great
corporations of the world,
including in the United
States, by World War II,
had created cartel agreements
between themselves.
They were layered.
It was almost like
the whole world
was one giant corporation.
And we see that even more
on the surface today.
But back in World War II,
it was not so visible.
And that's what
Ralph Bowman wanted
me to see in those early days.
And it was all there,
but it wasn't so visible
as it is today.
So IG Farben was the origin
of the medication industry.
The pharmaceutical industry was
an outgrowth of all of that.
And today, the
significance of that
is that when you look at the
giant pharmaceutical industry,
it's a cartel.
They all work together.
They compete, yes.
They have different products.
But they all work
together to make sure
that their prices
for their products
are all within the same range.
And they divide up categories
and, in some cases,
even regions.
And they share
patents and processes.
And they actually work basically
as one huge corporation.
And it's important to
know that if you're
going to understand why it
is that your doctor does not
know about the latest
treatments for some disease,
especially if those treatments
do not come from the cartel.
See?
And now we're getting
back to where we started.
And this is the reason Bowman
wanted me to take this trip.
And after you do
take the trip, you're
finally able to answer
the question, why is it?
If this is true, if there
is a control for cancer,
how come I can't get it?
How come my doctor
can't offer it to me?
How come it's not
available in my hospital?
And until you know
about this other side
of the story, the
cartels and how
they do control the
industries that they dominate,
and control what products
are available and at what
price, and all that
sort of-- until you
know that, then there's
no believable answer
to the question.
Everybody says, well,
it can't be true,
because otherwise, my
doctor would know about it.
So that's where the
significance of IG Farben
fits into all of this.
>>DAVID: How do
we prove to people
who are going to be
watching this video
and think that you're a
doddering old man who's crazy
that what you're saying
is actually true?
>>GRIFFIN: It's always hard
for people to, let's say,
change their views on
something important
if that view is reinforced
by authority or consensus.
If there's a great
comfort for us to feel,
well, everybody knows this
or everybody believes this.
And I believe this, therefore,
I'm in the majority.
And therefore, it must be right.
I hope, hope, hope.
So I understand why people might
laugh at some of these ideas
the first time they hear them.
As a matter of fact,
I laughed at them
the first time I heard from
Ralph Bowman and others
on various things, that there
was a control for cancer
from my friend
Dr. Richardson who
said, hey, we're curing
cancer with something
that comes from nature.
You can get it from
an apricot seed.
I said, John, come on.
You're pulling my leg.
I didn't laugh at him, but I
knew that couldn't be true.
Well, it didn't take long.
I found it is true,
and so I understand.
And there are probably things in
all of our paths ahead of this
where we're going to
stumble across something
and we'll hear somebody's
view, and then we'll say,
they're crazy.
And we're going
to find out, we're
going to be humbled
a few years later.
We're going to look back and
say, no, I was the crazy one,
and he was right.
So your question is how do
I answer people like that.
Well, I don't
really answer them.
I'll just suggest that they
take a look at the evidence
and back off and not
be so quick to judge.
Take a look at the
evidence, that's all.
That's all I can say.
>>DAVID: So let me
point out one thing.
What would happen
to the prophets
of the pharmaceutical industry
if the average person knew
that they could cure their
cancer with vitamin B17
or Laetrile, that can be
derived out of apricot kernels?
What would that do
to the bottom line
of the pharmaceutical cartel
that we've been discussing?
>>GRIFFIN: Well, it
would destroy the cartel.
If people understood that they
could control not only cancer,
but most of these dread chronic
metabolic diseases, by that I
mean, they're not
infectious diseases.
You don't catch
it from somebody.
They just grow out of the body's
deterioration in some way.
Most of those, if they knew
that they could be controlled
through therapies that are
outside of mainstream medicine
and also therapies which
are relatively inexpensive,
and in some cases, totally
free-- totally free-- I mean,
this is outrageous.
How can you run a multi-billion
dollar cancer cure
industry if the therapies
are free, you see?
So what would that do to them?
Well, of course, it would
put them out of business.
And you know they're not
going to stand by and allow
that to happen.
This does not mean, David, that
there are people standing over
there in these
industries saying,
yeah, we know that there's
a control for cancer that
doesn't cost a lot of money.
But we're going to
push ours anyway,
because we want to
make the profit.
And the heck with
all these people.
Let them die.
Let them suffer.
They don't do that.
There may be some that do, but
I don't think many of them do.
Maybe at the top, but the
practicing physicians,
the people in the
hospitals and the clinics,
the people delivering
what they consider
to be lifesaving drugs--
even though they're not,
but they think
they are-- they're
all well-intentioned people.
But they are dependent
upon this industry.
And so, there's an
instinctive reaction
to support the industry
that supports them.
I know of people, in
my personal experience,
who are very good people.
They're ethical people,
high-minded people.
And they're working for evil
corporations, and they know it.
But they don't like
to think about it,
because it's their job.
And they never said, yeah,
I'm working for evil,
but I don't care, because I
put money ahead of principle.
They don't do that.
But at the subconscious
level, they are saying, well,
this is my job.
And if I don't have this
job, I can't feed my family.
Therefore, I'll do the best
I can in the spot where I am.
And I think this
is the explanation
for 99% of the people trapped
in this environment, where they
are working for institutions
and corporations which are not
very ethical.
>>DAVID: How does
IG Farben morph
into the modern
pharmaceutical industry?
What's the through line on that?
>>GRIFFIN: I don't know that
I'm aware of the through line,
except to say that
after World War II,
a lot of those corporations
were legally broken up.
But you know how the lawyers
and the financiers are.
They can put structures together
that are not so obvious.
They can use street names.
They can use subsidiaries.
They can use all kinds of legal
and financial relationships
that are not obvious to people
like you and me to continue
the operation.
They say that Standard Oil
was broken up, for example.
But we know that,
technically, it's broken up.
You can show an organizational
chart with two tops added.
But what they don't show
is the invisible connection
between the two tops, which
is at the board of directors
level and the institutional
investment level.
So I'm sure that
the cartel continues
on this more subtle basis.
But we do know that it's real.
And it's not
necessary for us to be
able to trace the
connections and say,
well, this is the corporate
relationship, and so forth.
All we know is
that it's a cartel.
That's obvious on
the surface of it,
and that's really
all we need to know.
>>DAVID: Well, I understand
that for some people,
this is going to be
disturbing material.
For other people, this
is going to be oh, yeah,
we already knew all that stuff.
The important part here is, that
if cheap and effective cures
for cancer already
exist, and there
is this industrial conglomerate
that has formed-- what we were
warned about, the military
industrial complex,
by Eisenhower-- then we
should take this seriously.
And that's what
this show is about.
Disclosure is about
speaking truth to power
and giving power to the truth.
We'll see you next time.
[MUSIC PLAYING]